---
title: "Node.js Buildpack Reference"
menu:
  main:
    parent: reference
    identifier: nodejs-reference
    name: "Node.js Buildpack"
---

{{% reference_exec_summary bp_name="Paketo Node.js Buildpack" bp_repo="https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/nodejs" howto_docs_path="/docs/howto/nodejs" %}}


## Supported Dependencies
The Node.js buildpack supports several versions of Node.js.
For more details on the specific versions supported in a given buildpack
version, see the [release
notes](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/nodejs/releases).

## Supported Service Bindings
The Node.js buildpack can be configured using [service bindings][service-binding].
####
| `type`             | Required Files      | # Bindings of This Type Accepted |
|--------------------|---------------------|----------------------------------|
| [`npmrc`][npmrc]   | `type`, `.npmrc`    | 0 or 1                           |
| [`yarnrc`][yarnrc] | `type`, `.yarnrc`   | 0 or 1                           |

## Buildpack-Set Environment Variables
The Node.js buildpack sets a number of environment variables during the `build` and
`launch` phases of the app lifecycle. The sections below describe each
environment variable and its impact on your app.

### MEMORY_AVAILABLE
The `MEMORY_AVAILABLE` environment variable reports the total amount of memory
available to the app. The Node.js buildpack calculates this value from the limits
specified by the operating system in
`/sys/fs/cgroup/memory/memory.limit_in_bytes`.

* Set by: `profile.d`
* Phases: `launch`
* Value: non-negative integer

### NODE_ENV
The `NODE_ENV` environment variable specifies the environment in which the app
runs.

* Set by: `node-engine` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: production

### NODE_HOME
The `NODE_HOME` environment variable sets the path to the `node` installation.

* Set by: `node-engine` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: path to the `node` installation

### NODE_VERBOSE
The `NODE_VERBOSE` environment variable adjusts the amount of logging output
from NPM during installs.

* Set by: `node-engine` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: false

### NPM\_CONFIG\_LOGLEVEL
The `NPM_CONFIG_LOGLEVEL` environment variable adjusts the level of logging NPM
uses.

* Set by: `npm-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: "error"

### NPM\_CONFIG\_PRODUCTION
The `NPM_CONFIG_PRODUCTION` environment variable installs only production
dependencies if NPM install is used.

* Set by: `npm-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: false

### PATH
The `node_modules/.bin` directory is appended onto the `PATH` environment variable

* Set by: `yarn-install` or `npm-install` buildpacks
* Phases: `build`
* Value: path to the `node_modules/.bin` directory

## Package Management with NPM
Many Node.js apps require a number of third-party libraries to perform common
tasks and behaviors. NPM is an option for managing these third-party
dependencies that the Node.js buildpack fully supports. Including a `package.json`
file in your app source code triggers the NPM installation process. The sections
below describe the NPM installation process run by the buildpack.

### NPM Installation Process
NPM supports several distinct methods for installing your package dependencies.
Specifically, the Node.js buildpack runs either the [`npm
install`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-commands/install), [`npm
rebuild`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-commands/rebuild.html), or [`npm
ci`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-commands/ci.html) commands to build your app
with the right set of dependencies. When deciding which installation process to
use, the Node.js buildpack consults your app source code, looking for the presence of
specific files or directories. The installation process used also determines
how the Node.js buildpack will reuse layers when rebuilding your app.

The table below shows the process the Node.js buildpack uses to determine an
installation process for NPM packages. When a combination of the files and
directories listed in the table below are present in your app source code,
the Node.js buildpack uses an installation process that ensures the
correct third-party dependencies are installed during the build process.


| `package-lock.json` | `node_modules` | `npm-cache` | Command |
| ------------------- | -------------- | ----------- | ------- |
| X | X | X | `npm install` |
| X | X | ✓ | `npm install` |
| X | ✓ | X | `npm rebuild` |
| X | ✓ | ✓ | `npm rebuild` |
| ✓ | X | X | `npm ci` |
| ✓ | X | ✓ | `npm ci` |
| ✓ | ✓ | X | `npm rebuild` |
| ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | `npm ci` |

The following sections give more information about the files listed in the
table above, including how to generate them, if desired.

#### package-lock.json
The `package-lock.json` file is generated by running `npm install`.  For
more information, see
[npm-package-lock.json](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package-lock.json) in the
NPM documentation.

#### node_modules
The `node_modules` directory contains vendored copies of all the packages
installed by the `npm install` process. For more information, see the [Node
Modules](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/folders.html#node-modules) section of the
_npm-folders_ topic in the NPM documentation.

#### npm-cache
The `npm-cache` directory contains a content-addressable cache that stores all
HTTP-request- and package-related data. Additionally, including a cache ensures
that the app can be built entirely offline.

To populate an `npm-cache` directory:
1. Navigate to your source code directory.
1. Run:
{{< code/copyable >}}
npm ci --cache npm-cache
{{< /code/copyable >}}

For more information about the NPM cache, see
[npm-cache](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/cache) in the NPM documentation.

### Determining Node Modules Layer Reuse
To improve build times for apps, the Node.js buildpack has a method for reusing the build
results from previous builds. When the CNB determines that a portion of the
build process can be reused from a previous build, the CNB uses the previous
result. Each installation process uses a different method for determining
whether the CNB can reuse a previous build result.

For `npm install`, the CNB never reuses a `node_modules` directory from previous builds.

For `npm rebuild`, the CNB can reuse a `node_modules` directory from a previous
build if the included `node_modules` directory in the app source code has not
changed since the prior build.

For `npm ci`, the CNB can reuse a `node_modules` directory from a previous
build if the `package-lock.json` file included in the app source code has not
changed since the prior build.

## Package Management with Yarn
Many Node.js apps require a number of third-party libraries to perform common
tasks and behaviors. Yarn is an alternative option to NPM for managing these
third-party dependencies. Including `package.json` and `yarn.lock` files in
your app source code triggers the Yarn installation process.

### Yarn Installation Process
The Node.js buildpack runs `yarn install` and `yarn check` to ensure that third-party
dependencies are properly installed.
The `yarn.lock` file contains a fully resolved set of package dependencies that
Yarn manages. For more information, see
[yarn.lock](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/yarn-lock/) in the Yarn
documentation.

### Yarn Start Command
As part of the build process, the Node.js buildpack determines a start command for
your app. The start command differs depending on which package management
tooling the Node.js buildpack uses. If the Node.js buildpack uses `yarn` to install
packages, the start command is `yarn start`.

## Determining the Start Command
As part of the build process, the Node.js buildpack determines a start command for
your app. The start command differs depending on which package management
tooling the Node.js buildpack uses. If the Node.js buildpack uses `npm` or `yarn` to
install packages, the start command is generated from the contents of
`package.json`.

## Projects Without Package Management
The Node.js buildpack also supports simple apps that do not require third-party packages.

### Start Command
If no package manager is detected, the Node.js buildpack will look for four generic entrypoint JavaScript
files, in this order:
- `server.js`
- `app.js`
- `main.js`
- `index.js`

When the buildpack finds one of these, it will consider that the app's entrypoint and set the
app image's start command to `node <entrypoint filename>`.

##  Software Bill of Materials
The Node.js buildpack supports the full [software bill of materials][concepts/SBOM] (SBOM) in [Syft][format/syft], [CycloneDX][format/cyclonedx], [SPDX][format/spdx], and [Paketo-specific][format/paketo] formats.

The `node module` SBOM entries provide a full picture of the packages on the
final app image. The `purl` field is especially helpful to locate where on the
NPM Registry a module came from. Check out the [Access the Software Bill of Materials
guide][how-to/SBOM] for more information about how to retrieve
the SBOM for your Node.js app image.

<!-- References -->
<!-- spellchecker-disable -->
[yarnrc]:{{< ref "docs/howto/nodejs#configure-yarn-during-the-build" >}}
[npmrc]:{{< ref "docs/howto/nodejs#configure-npm-during-the-build" >}}
[service-binding]:{{< ref "docs/howto/configuration#bindings" >}}
[format/cyclonedx]:https://cyclonedx.org/
[format/spdx]:https://spdx.dev/
[format/syft]:https://github.com/anchore/syft/tree/main/schema/json
[format/paketo]:{{< ref "docs/concepts/sbom#paketo-specific-sbom-format" >}}
[concepts/SBOM]:{{< ref "docs/concepts/sbom" >}}
[how-to/SBOM]:{{< ref "docs/howto/sbom" >}}
<!-- spellchecker-enable -->
