---
title: "PHP Buildpack Reference"
menu:
  main:
    parent: reference
    identifier: php-reference
    name: "PHP Buildpack"
---

{{% reference_exec_summary bp_name="Paketo PHP Buildpack" bp_repo="https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php" howto_docs_path="/docs/howto/php" %}}

## Supported Dependencies

The Paketo PHP Buildpack supports several versions of PHP and Composer.
For more details on the specific versions supported in a given buildpack
version, see the [release notes][bp/PHP-releases].

## Behavior
The Paketo PHP Buildpack is a [composite buildpack][paketo/composite-buildpack]
designed to build applications written in PHP.

### Package Management

With the PHP CNB, the only option for package management is
[Composer][external/composer].

The [Composer buildpack][bp/composer] will install `composer` as the package manager, and if a PHP
application contains a `composer.json` (and preferably a `composer.lock` file) packages
are installed by running `composer install` by the Composer Install
[buildpack][bp/composer-install]. Packages installed will be available in a
`vendor` directory in the application source directory, and will be cached for
rebuilds.

### Running With Webservers
The buildpacks within the PHP CNB will configure basic configuration for
working with FPM, HTTPD, NGINX, or the built-in PHP webserver. Web server
choice is set by the user via environment variable (see [PHP How To
documentation]({{< ref "docs/howto/php" >}})), and user-provided configurations will be considered as outlined
below.

##  Software Bill of Materials
The PHP buildpack supports the full [software bill of materials][concepts/SBOM] (SBOM) in [Syft][format/syft],
[CycloneDX][format/cyclonedx], [SPDX][format/spdx], and
[Paketo-specific][format/paketo] formats.

Apps built with the buildpack that use Composer as a package manager contain
SBOM entries that provide a full picture of the packages installed in the final app image. There are also entries for the installed versions of PHP and Composer. Check out the [Access the Software Bill of Materials
guide][how-to/SBOM] for more information about how to
retrieve the SBOM for your app image.


## Buildpack Configurations

The buildpacks in the PHP language family set default configurations, as well
as include configurations from user-provided sources. The sections below
outline the various configurations the buildpacks provide during the build process, and
the various locations that will also be considered as configuration sources.

### [PHP Distribution Buildpack][bp/php-dist] Configuration
This section lists the various configuration sources for PHP `.ini` files that
are made available to PHP at run-time.
1. The [default PHP `ini` file][bp/php-dist/PHP-configuration] found from the PHP
   Distribution itself, with no modifications. It can be found on the container
   inside the PHP Distribution Buildpack layer under `/etc/php.ini`.
2. [Buildpack-specific configuration][bp/php-dist/buildpack-configuration] which can be found inside the PHP
   Distribution Buildpack layer under `/etc/buildpack.ini`. This includes
   configurations specific to the buildpack's install process and app image file
   system, such as the path to PHP extensions (`extension_dir`), the include
   path to the PHP library directory.
3. User-provided configurations from the `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d` directory.

Check out the [PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR documentation section][PHP-scan-directory] for more information.

### [PHP FPM Buildpack][bp/php-fpm] Configuration
Configuration for PHP FPM comes from a few sources, listed here in order of precedence from highest to lowest:

1. User-provided configurations located in `<APP-ROOT>/.php.fpm.d/*.conf`.
2. Configuration set by other buildpacks (such as the PHP NGINX
   Buildpack [FPM configuration][bp/php-nginx/FPM-configuration]), which is stored in 
   `/workspace/.php.fpm.bp/*.conf` files.
3. [Buildpack-specific configuration][bp/php-fpm/buildpack-configuration], which includes
   configurations specific to the buildpack's role in the build process. This
   includes settings such as the default `listen` directive, and other features
   to make FPM work well with web servers.
4. The [default PHP FPM configuration][bp/php-fpm/default-configuration] that is distributed alongside the PHP
   Distribution itself. This is stored at `$PHPRC/php-fpm.d/www.conf.default` in the container.


### [PHP NGINX Buildpack][bp/php-nginx] Configuration
The PHP NGINX Buildpack sets up two flavours of configuration itself, and
allows for a third flavour from users. They are listed here in order of highest
precedence, to lowest.

1. User-provided configuration files located in
   `<APP-ROOT>/.nginx.conf.d/*-http.conf` and
   `<APP-ROOT>/.nginx.conf.d/*-server.conf`
   The former can be used to include user-specific config in the `http` block,
   while the latter is used to include user-specific config in the `http.server` block
   in the `nginx.conf` generated by the buildpack.
2. [Basic NGINX configuration][bp/php-nginx/nginx-configuration] is the `nginx.conf` file for
   running with PHP apps. See [PHP How To documentation]({{< ref
   "docs/howto/php" >}}) for settings that can be configured via environment
   variables.
3. NGINX-specific FPM settings (see FPM section above) is added to work with
   FPM.

### [PHP HTTPD Buildpack][bp/php-httpd] Configuration
1. [Basic HTTPD configuration][bp/php-httpd/httpd-configuration] is the `httpd.conf` file for
   running with PHP apps. See [PHP How To documentation][how-to/configure-httpd] for settings that
   can be configured via environment variables.
2. User-provided configuration files located in
   `<APP-ROOT>/.httpd.conf.d/*.conf`.

### [Composer Install Buildpack][bp/composer-install] Configuration
The Composer Install Buildpack sets up configuration to be used for running
`composer` commands. They are listed here in no specific order.

1. A Composer PHP `.ini` file is created for usage during the buildpack build
   process **only**. It will tell Composer where to find extensions when running
   `composer-install`.
2. Platform requirement `.ini` file available on the final image under
   `/workspace/.php.ini.d/composer-extensions.ini` which will be appended onto
   the `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR`. It will include any `composer.json` specified
   extensions that come from running the Composer `check-platform-reqs`
   command.

## Buildpack-Set Environment Variables

The buildpacks within the [Paketo PHP language family][bp/php] set a number of
environment variables during the `build` and `launch` phases of the app
lifecycle. The sections below describe each environment variable and its impact
on your app.

### PATH

* Set by: `php-dist` and `composer-install` (`build` phase only)
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: path to the PHP executable

### PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR
* Set by: `php-dist`, `php-redis-session-handler`, and `php-memcached-session-handler` buildpacks
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: directories where PHP `ini` configuration can be found.

### PHPRC

* Set by: `php-dist` and `composer-install` (`build` phase only)
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: path to the top-level official PHP Distribution-provided `php.ini`

### PHP_API

* Set by: `php-dist` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: internal api version (YYYYMMDD)

### PHP_EXTENSION_DIR

* Set by: `php-dist` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: location of directory with dynamic libraries for extensions

### PHP_HOME

* Set by: `php-dist` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: location of PHP installation


### MIBDIRS

* Set by: `php-dist` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: See [PHP documentation](https://www.php.net/manual/en/snmp.installation.php)

### APP_ROOT

* Set by: `httpd` buildpack
* Phases: `launch`
* Value: path of app source

### SERVER_ROOT

* Set by: `httpd` buildpack
* Phases: `launch`
* Value: path of the httpd installation

### COMPOSER

* Set by: `composer-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: path to the `composer.json` file

### COMPOSER_HOME

* Set by: `composer-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: Composer home directory

### COMPOSER_VENDOR_DIRECTORY

* Set by: `composer-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: Composer packages vendor directory

### COMPOSER_NO_INTERACTION

* Set by: `composer-install` buildpack
* Phases: `build`
* Value: Pass the `--no-interaction` flag to Composer commands

### PHP_FPM_PATH

* Set by: `php-fpm` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: path to the FPM configuration for usage in FPM start command

### PHP_HTTPD_PATH

* Set by: `php-httpd` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: path to the HTTPD configuration for usage in server start command

### PHP_NGINX_PATH

* Set by: `php-nginx` buildpack
* Phases: `build` and `launch`
* Value: path to the NGINX configuration for usage in NGINX start command


## Components
| Name                                   | Required/Optional | Purpose                                               |
|----------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| [Paketo PHP Dist Buildpack][bp/php-dist]       | Required          | Installs the PHP distribution, making it available on the $PATH                       |
| [Paketo PHP FPM Buildpack][bp/php-fpm]            | Required          | Configures a `php-fpm.conf` config file for PHP FPM                        |
| [Paketo Composer Buildpack][bp/composer]            | Optional          | Installs the Composer tool onto the $PATH                         |
| [Paketo Composer Install Buildpack][bp/composer-install]            | Optional          | Runs `composer install`                         |
| [Paketo HTTPD Buildpack][bp/httpd]            | Optional          | Installs Apache HTTPD                         |
| [Paketo NGINX Buildpack][bp/nginx]            | Optional          | Installs NGINX                         |
| [Paketo PHP HTTPD Buildpack][bp/php-httpd]            | Optional          | Configures HTTPD to serve a PHP app                         |
| [Paketo PHP NGINX Buildpack][bp/php-nginx]            | Optional          | Configures NGINX to serve a PHP app                         |
| [Paketo PHP Builtin Server Buildpack][bp/php-builtin-server]            | Optional          | Sets a PHP built-in server start command                         |
| [Paketo PHP Redis Session Handler Buildpack][bp/php-redis-session-handler]            | Optional          | Configures a PHP session handler for a Redis instance                         |
| [Paketo PHP Memcached Session Handler Buildpack][bp/php-memcached-session-handler]            | Optional          | Configures a PHP session handler for a Memcached instance                        |
| [Paketo PHP Start Buildpack][bp/php-start]            | Optional          | Sets the start command to serve PHP apps with NGINX or HTTPD with FPM                         |
| [Paketo Procfile Buildpack][bp/procfile]              | Optional          | Sets a user-specified start command                   |
| [Paketo Environment Variables Buildpack][bp/env-vars] | Optional          | Sets user-specified launch-time environment variables |
| [Paketo Image Labels Buildpack][bp/image-labels]          | Optional          | Adds user-specified labels to app image metadata      |
| [Paketo CA Certificates Buildpack][bp/ca-certs]       | Optional          | Installs custom CA certificates                       |

<!-- References -->
<!-- spellchecker-disable -->
[bp/PHP-releases]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php/releases
[bp/php]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php
[bp/php-start]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-start
[bp/php-fpm]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-fpm
[bp/php-dist]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-dist
[bp/composer-install]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/composer-install
[bp/nginx]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/nginx
[bp/httpd]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/httpd
[bp/php-nginx]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-nginx
[bp/php-httpd]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-httpd
[bp/php-builtin-server]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-builtin-server
[bp/php-redis-session-handler]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-redis-session-handler
[bp/php-memcached-session-handler]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-memcached-session-handler
[bp/composer]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/composer
[bp/composer-install]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/composer-install
[bp/procfile]:{{< bp_repo "procfile" >}}
[bp/image-labels]:{{< bp_repo "image-labels" >}}
[bp/env-vars]:{{< bp_repo "environment-variables" >}}
[bp/ca-certs]:{{< bp_repo "ca-certificates" >}}

[bp/php-dist/PHP-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-dist/blob/a33ea23adcb4dd0b4ae0d2a4746f570b13a1a75b/config/default.ini
[bp/php-dist/buildpack-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-dist/blob/a33ea23adcb4dd0b4ae0d2a4746f570b13a1a75b/config/buildpack.ini
[bp/php-fpm/default-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-fpm/blob/e605c742b1fdde7d30d67fc21360227f40fecb93/config/php-fpm-base.conf
[bp/php-fpm/buildpack-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-fpm/blob/e605c742b1fdde7d30d67fc21360227f40fecb93/config/php-fpm-buildpack.conf
[bp/php-nginx/FPM-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-nginx/blob/d98ea729531efec03ede533c7e74e7093367fb33/config/nginx-fpm.conf
[bp/php-nginx/nginx-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-nginx/blob/d98ea729531efec03ede533c7e74e7093367fb33/config/nginx.conf
[bp/php-httpd/httpd-configuration]:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-httpd/blob/d7be88d8def441d2fdbc03fd52773d3558ae8e14/config/httpd.conf

[paketo/composite-buildpack]:{{< ref "docs/concepts/buildpacks#composite-buildpacks" >}}

[external/composer]:https://getcomposer.org/

[format/cyclonedx]:https://cyclonedx.org/
[format/spdx]:https://spdx.dev/
[format/syft]:https://github.com/anchore/syft/tree/main/schema/json
[format/paketo]:{{< ref "docs/concepts/sbom#paketo-specific-sbom-format" >}}

[concepts/SBOM]:{{< ref "docs/concepts/sbom" >}}
[how-to/SBOM]:{{< ref "docs/howto/sbom" >}}
[PHP-scan-directory]:{{< ref "docs/reference/php-reference#php_ini_scan_dir" >}}
[how-to/configure-httpd]:{{< ref "docs/howto/php#provide-httpd-specific-configuration" >}}

<!-- spellchecker-enable -->
